Microplastics in the air are becoming a concern, especially in indoor environments. Outdoor micro-plastics can travel from far spaces while indoor ones remain suspended and recirculate in the indoor environment. In this study, we collected air samples from the same buildings indoors and outdoors and observed the indoor microplastic concentration was 1.8 times higher than the outdoor. 24-hour sampling was performed with a mini-volume air sampler at the rate of 5 L/min. In this study, along with a comparison of indoor and outdoor concentrations, we also studied the microplastics' type size, and shape. We found that fiber-type microplastics account for nearly 90 % of the total and synthetic fibers. We also reported the 10 highest present microplastics are Polyethylene, Polyethersulfone, Polyamide, Polystyrene, Acrylic, Polyvinyl Chloride, Polytetrafluoroethylene, Alkyd, and Polyurethane. It is also observed the indoor ventilation rate plays a major role in the microplastic concentrations, long and periodic ventilation resulted in the lower concentration of the indoor microplastics. This study resulted in higher indoor air concentrations than outdoor and even in the outskirts of the metropolitan city which shows that indoor air concentrations are dependent on indoor sources and human activity.

The widespread use of plastic has caused microplastic to be recognized as an emerging pollutant and a serious concern. Microplastics in water have been investigated in various studies, a review of which can be useful in different aspects of this issue. This review showed that the origins of microplastics in water are classified into two main groups including primary microplastic and secondary microplastics. The intensity of pollution of water sources in different countries has been reported from less than one to thousands of microplastics per liter. Finally, drinking water is a concern as a major source of exposure to microplastics, and it is estimated that each adult ingests 0.2–1.2 × 106 microplastics annually via drinking water. The most important methods of analyzing this pollutant in water include FTIR and Raman spectroscopy. The most important environmental and health risk associated with it is oxidative stress, cytotoxicity, disruption of the energy homeostasis and metabolism, disruption of immune function, neurotoxicity, and cancer. Therefore, provide solutions to reduce the entry of microplastics into water resources, as well as to develop methods to remove them from polluted waters is necessary.

The issue of plastic pollution has been exacerbated by the discovery of small plastic particles known as “microplastic”. While the harmful effects of microplastics are becoming increasingly apparent, life-cycle assessment (LCA), as a holistic environmental assessment tool, has yet to offer a solution that can quantitatively capture the impacts associated with microplastics. In this paper, we conducted a systematic literature review to investigate how existing LCA studies quantify the environmental and human health effects of microplastics. A detailed analysis of 187 studies revealed that microplastics are rarely quantified, or even qualitatively discussed, in most LCAs. Thus, the true impacts of plastic products may be underrepresented and underestimated, leading to biased decision-making. We believe that this status quo is attributable to four fundamental issues, including (i) lack of microplastic leakage data; (ii) lack of quantitative cause-effect relationships between microplastic concentration and their impacts; (iii) exclusion of the “use” phase from the scope of analysis; and (iv) exclusion of long-term effects from landfilled plastic waste. These findings highlight the need for greater efforts and investment in microplastic research and data collection. To address the current knowledge gap, this article presents practical recommendations on how microplastics can be incorporated into the LCA framework, based on latest research.

Microplastics, small sized plastic particles having size <5 mm are formed through primary process including production of beauty products, microbeads and microfibres as well as secondary process including mechanical weathering, friction, aberration and fragmentation of large plastics. The major sources of microplastics are land-based and ocean-based sources. Microplastic pollution is a serious concern due to the persistent, low biodegradability and bio-accumulative behaviour. Microplastics can bioaccumulate in the food chain and can cause ecological and human health risk. Hence, it is important to remove from the aquatic ecosystems. Microplastics are removed from aquatic systems and wastewater through a series of processes such as physical, chemical and biological treatments. In the present articles, >250 articles are reviewed to collect the information regarding the various physical, chemical and biological methods for the removal of microplastics. Also, the probable control strategies to combat with plastic pollution were assessed. It was concluded that recent water treatment methods are efficient in removing microplastic pollution. The efficiencies to remove microplastic from the water ranged between 74 %-99.2 %, 65 %-99.20 % and 77 %-100 % for physical, chemical and biological treatment methods, respectively. Among the three treatment methods, physical methods especially the filtration of water from biochar is the most efficient way (efficiency up to 100 %) to remove microplastics. It was also concluded that creating public awareness, promoting reusing, recycling and reducing, and application of bioplastics can control the production of microplastics from plastic wastes. This review will be useful to add current knowledge regarding the abatement of microplastic pollution, and finding novel solution to control microplastics. This review will also help the policymakers to implement most effective and cost-efficient method to remove microplastics, and to find out new methods to reduce, reuse and recycle plastic wastes.

Microplastics, pervasive contaminants from plastic, present significant challenges to wastewater treatment processes. This review critically examines the interactions between microplastics and biofilm-based treatment technologies, specifically focusing on the concepts of “biofilm on microplastics” and “microplastics in biofilm”. It discusses the implications of these interactions in contaminant removal and process performance. Advanced characterization techniques, including morphological characterization, chemical composition analysis, and bio-information analysis, are assessed to elucidate the complex interplay between microplastics and biofilms within biofilters, biological aerated filters (BAFs), rotating biological contactors (RBCs), and moving bed biofilm reactors (MBBRs). This review synthesizes current research findings, highlighting that microplastics can either hinder or enhance the treatment processes, contingent on their concentration, physicochemical properties, and the specific biofilm technology employed. The insights gained from this review are essential for developing strategies to mitigate the adverse effects of microplastics and for optimizing the design and operation of wastewater treatment.

Over the past few years, microplastics (MPs) pollution in the marine environment has emerged as a significant environmental concern. Poor management practices lead to millions of tons of plastic waste entering oceans annually, primarily from land-based sources like mismanaged waste, urban runoff, and industrial activities. MPs pollution in marine environments poses a significant threat to ecosystems and human health, as it adsorbs pollutants, heavy metals, and leaches additives such as plasticizers and flame retardants, thus contributing to chemical pollution. The review article provides a comprehensive overview of MPs pollution, its sources, and impacts on marine environments, including human health, detection techniques, and strategies for mitigating
microplastic contamination in marine environments. The paper provides current information on microplastic pollution in marine environments, offering insights for researchers, policymakers, and the public, as well as promoting sustainable practices to protect the environment.

The Mediterranean Sea is one of the most heavily polluted regions. Here we comprehensively review the current state of microplastic pollution in the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea. A total of 284 studies published between 2012 and 2023 were analyzed, revealing a continuous increase in research efforts. Our review encompassed microplastic monitoring studies across five environmental matrices: the sea surface, water column, intertidal sediment, bottom sediment, and biota, with a predominant focus observed in biota-related studies with fish, molluscs, crustaceans, and echinoderms being the primary focus. The study found that species such as Mullus barbatus, Mytilus galloprovincialis, Nephrops norvegicus, and Holothuria tubulosa are frequently studied species. The review also emphasizes the lack of standardized methodologies across studies, which hampers the comparability of results and the synthesis of data. The findings of this study provide a critical evaluation of the current research landscape and identify significant knowledge gaps, particularly in the underrepresented southern Mediterranean and Black Sea regions, calling for more balanced research efforts and methodological consistency in future studies.

Microplastics (MPs) are widespread in everyday life, and since wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) serve as an important route for MPs to enter natural water bodies, a thorough understanding of the distribution and removal of MPs in wastewater treatment plants is of great importance. This article provides a comprehensive overview of the measured distribution of MPs and the current status of their removal in wastewater treatment plants. The main sources of MPs in wastewater treatment plants are personal care products in domestic wastewater, textile clothing and industrial wastewater made from plastics, textile factories and the friction of road tires. The MPs that entered the sewage treatment plant were predominantly in the form of fibers, fragments, granular MPs and other types of MPs. The size of MPs is divided into three categories: <0.5 mm, 0.5–1 mm and 1–5 mm. At all treatment stages in wastewater plants, 56.8–88.4 % of MPs are removed in primary treatment, but the primary sedimentation and degreasing stages remove most MPs. The efficiency of the activated sludge process for secondary treatment is inconsistent and is generally between 42.1 and 99.2 %. The coagulation, filtration and disinfection stages of tertiary treatment all have some MPs removal capacity. In addition, novel removal technologies are also described, such as modified filtration technology, membrane separation technology, electroflocculation, sol-gel and photocatalysis. These novel removal technologies can further limit the entry of microplastics into natural water bodies through sewage treatment plants and improved sewage treatment processes help reduce the risk of MPs entering the natural environment through sewage treatment plants. This article will provide reference for the distribution and removal of microplastics in various levels of WWTPs.

Microplastic waste in aquatic environments can lead to the mortality of large marine creatures, as it increases the risk of entanglement, strangulation, and starvation. Even though micro and nanoplastics pose a hidden threat, researchers still know little about them. The food source is an essential factor in gut microbial diversity. A well-balanced intestinal microbiome impacts animal development and health. According to research, microplastics (MPs) like polyethylene (PE) and polystyrene (PS) affected the gut microbiota of Artemia sp., increasing their genetic diversity. Therefore, the present study examined the negative impacts of MPs within the gastrointestinal tract of Artemia sp., the primary protein source of fish. A comprehensive literature review showed that microplastic contamination and its additives impair environmental and aquatic health. The findings of this research show that MPs alter the gut microbiota of Artemia, which in turn affects fish and, ultimately, human health via a cascade of impacts.

Recent reports indicate that ubiquitous microplastics (MPs) in the environment can infiltrate the human body, posing significant health risks and garnering widespread attention. However, public understanding of the intricate processes through which microplastics are transferred to humans remains limited. Consequently, developing effective strategies to mitigate the escalating issue of MPs pollution and safeguard human health is still challenging. In this review, we elucidated the sources and dynamic migration pathways of MPs, examined its complex interactions with other pollutants, and identified primary routes of human exposure. Subsequently, the events and alterations of gut microbiota, gut microbiota metabolism, and intestinal barrier after MPs enter the
gut of organisms are unclosed. Additionally, it highlighted the ease with which MPs translocate from the intestine to other organs along with their biological toxicities. Finally, we also emphasized the knowledge gaps in the current research field and proposes future research directions. This review aims to enhance public awareness regarding microplastic pollution and provide valuable references for forthcoming research endeavors as well as policy formulation related to this pressing issue.

Microplastics have been ubiquitous in our environment for decades, and numerous studies have revealed their extensive dispersion, reaching far beyond the surface of the land, soil, aquatic ecosystems. They have infiltrated the food-chain, the food web, even the air we breathe, as well as the water we drink. Microplastics have been detected in the food we consume, acting as vectors for hazardous chemicals that adhere to their hydrophobic surfaces. This can result in the transfer of these chemicals to the aquatic life, posing a threat to their well-being. The release of microplastics into different environmental settings can give rise to various eco-toxicological implications. The substantial body of literature has led scientists to the consensus that microplastic pollution is a global problem with the potential to impact virtually any type of ecosystem. This paper aims to discuss crucial information regarding the occurrence, accumulation, and ecological effects of microplastics on organisms. It also highlights the new and emerging disease named “Plasticosis” that is directly linked to microplastics and its toxicological effects like permanent scarring and long-term inflammation in the digestive system of the seabirds. By comprehending the behaviour of these microplastic pollutants in diverse habitats and evaluating their ecological consequences, it becomes possible to facilitate a better understanding of this toxicological issue.

The pervasive presence of microplastics has emerged as a pressing global environmental concern, posing threats to food security and human health upon infiltrating agricultural soils. These microplastics primarily originate from agricultural activities, including fertilizer inputs, compost-based soil remediation, irrigation, and atmospheric deposition. Their remarkable durability and resistance to biodegradation contribute to their persistent presence in the environment. Microplastics within agricultural soils have prompted concerns regarding their potential impacts on agricultural practices. Functioning as significant pollutants and carriers of micro contaminants within agricultural ecosystems, microplastics and their accompanying contaminants represent ongoing challenges. Within these soil ecosystems, the fate and transportation of microplastics can detrimentally affect plant growth, microbial communities, and, subsequently, human health via the food chain. Specifically, microplastics interact with soil factors, impacting soil health and functionality. Their high adsorption capacity for hazardous microcontaminants exacerbates soil contamination, leading to increased adverse effects on organisms and human health. Due to their tiny size, microplastic debris is easily ingested by soil organisms and can transfer through the food chain, causing physiological and/or mechanical damage. Additionally, microplastics can affect plant growth and have the potential to accumulate and be transported within plants. Efforts to mitigate
these impacts are crucial to safeguarding agricultural sustainability and environmental health. Future research should delve into the long-term impacts of environmental aging processes on microplastic debris within agricultural soil ecosystems from various sources, primarily focusing on food security and human beings.

Biodegradable plastics (BPs) have been widely advocated as a sustainable alternative to petroleum-derived polymers, aiming to mitigate the burgeoning crisis of microplastic pollution. However, incomplete biodegradation of BPs can generate more and smaller particles, such as microplastics, which may persist in environments. Knowledge of the fate and effects of BPs, especially biodegradable microplastics, in the aquatic environment remains limited. We investigate the concentrations, detection methods, and adverse effects of biodegradable microplastics on aquatic organisms in various aquatic environments. Biodegradable microplastics, such as poly (lactic acid), polyhydroxyalkanoates, poly(butylene adipate-co-terephthalate), and poly(butylene succinate), are found in wastewater, reservoirs, and marine environments at concentrations between 0.054 and 180 μg/L. Their environmental levels are negatively correlated with their degradation capacity in water. Biodegradable microplastics adversely affect aquatic microbial communities, plant adaptability, and animal physiology, with their toxicity increasing upon degradation. This review advocates for a critical reassessment of the use, disposal, and management strategies surrounding BPs.

This is a reply to the recently published paper Road markings and microplastics- A critical literature review. In our opinion, that paper presented a deceptive picture, of why we found it necessary to write a short reply where we comment on two major flaws: the stated lack of road markings in environmental samples, and the definition of microplastics. We discuss possible reasons for the absence of positive findings in environmental samples and relate that to two of the major issues within the research area of microplastics- the complexity of environmental samples and the analytical difficulties. We also argue that it can be relevant for upcoming studies to report both total microplastic concentration and polymer content to facilitate the comparison between studies since the definition of microplastics might change over time.

The presence of microplastics in the aquatic environment has attracted widespread attention. A large number of studies have assessed the effects of microplastics on the respiratory system of aquatic animals, but the results are not directly comparable across studies due to inconsistent evaluation criteria. Therefore, we adopted an integrated research approach that can integrate and parse complex data to improve reliability, conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of 35 published studies, and elucidated the mechanisms of microplastic damage to cells. The results showed that PE had the greatest impact on aquatic animals, and fish were the most sensitive to the effects caused by microplastics, with oxidative stress induced by exposure concentrations exceeding 1000 μg/L or exposure times exceeding 28 days, leading to depletion of antioxidant defenses, cellular damage, inflammatory responses, and behavioral abnormalities. As this review is based on existing studies, there may be limitations in terms of literature quality, data availability and timeliness. In conclusion, we suggest to combat microplastic pollution by limiting plastic use, promoting plastic substitution and recycling, and
enhancing microplastic capture degradation technologies.

Microplastics have become major pollutants in the marine environment and can accumulate in high concentrations, especially in the gut of marine organisms. Unlike other seafood, bivalves are consumed whole, along with their digestive systems, resulting in the transfer of microplastics to humans. Therefore, there is an urgent need to review the status of microplastic pollution in marine bivalves. In this context, this article provides a comprehensive review of the status of microplastic pollution in marine bivalves and the impact of microplastics on the physiology and immunology of marine bivalves. In general, marine bivalves can accumulate high levels of microplastics in a tissue-specific manner. Although microplastic pollution does not cause mortality in bivalves, it can adversely affects bivalves’ immunity, byssus production, and reproduction, potentially affecting bivalve populations. This article provides important information that will aid establishing management measures and determining the direction of future research.

Microplastic contamination has rapidly become a serious environmental issue, threatening marine ecosystems and human health. This review aims to not only understand the distribution, impacts, and transfer mechanisms of microplastic contamination but also to explore potential solutions for mitigating its widespread impact. This review encompasses the categorisation, origins, and worldwide prevalence of microplastics and methodically navigates the complicated structure of microplastics. Understanding the sources of minute plastic particles infiltrating water bodies worldwide is critical for successful removal. The presence and accumulation of microplastics has far reaching negative impacts on various marine creatures, eventually extending its implications to human health. Microplastics are known to affect the metabolic activities and the survival of microbial communities, phytoplankton, zooplankton, and fauna present in marine environments. Moreover, these microplastics cause developmental abnormalities, endocrine disruption, and several metabolic disorders in humans. These microplastics accumulates in aquatic environments through trophic transfer mechanisms and biomagnification, thereby disrupting the delicate balance of these ecosystems. The review also addresses the tactics for minimising the widespread impact of microplastics by suggesting practical alternatives. These include increasing public awareness, fostering international cooperation, developing novel cleanup solutions, and encouraging the use of environment-friendly materials. In conclusion, this review examines the sources and prevalence of microplastic contamination in marine environment, its impacts on living organisms and ecosystems. It also proposes various sustainable strategies to mitigate the problem of microplastics pollution. Also, the current challenges associated with the mitigation of these pollutants have been discussed and addressing these challenges require immediate and collective action for restoring the balance in marine ecosystems.

As emerging pollutants, microplastics have recently received considerable attention owing to detection in various organisms and environments. Mass production and widespread use of plastic products increase their potential risks to humans owing to their persistent,mobile, and toxic properties. Numerous methods have been used to identify and quantify the various forms of microplastics, however, unified standards do not exist. In this article, we systematically summarize the sources, migration, transformation, and analytical methods for microplastics in diverse ecosystems, particularly the most recent sampling and identifica-
tion techniques. Additionally,the environmental effects and health hazards of microplastics on aquatic and terrestrial systems, as well as human beings are discussed. We also present management strategies for reducing microplastics in a broader social and policy context. This review aims to provide an overview of the migration, transformation, sampling, analysis, and environmental effects of microplastics, which addresses knowledge gaps in microplastic pollution and provides proposals for key research gaps.

Microplastics pose significant challenges on a global scale. In Ghana, these tiny pollutants infiltrate diverse ecosystems such as coastal areas, rivers, lakes, and forests, vital to the nation’s economy and social well-being. This review examines the current depth of knowledge in research and the escalating concern of microplastics, identifying significant gaps in research and understanding. The findings highlight the limited understanding of the extent and distribution of microplastic pollution across different environmental compartments, primarily focusing on coastal environments. Additionally, detection and quantification techniques for microplastics face several complexities and limitations in the Ghanaian context due to constraints such as infra-
structure, resources, and expertise. Despite some research efforts, particularly along the coastline, there is still a distinct lack of attention in various regions and ecosystems within Ghana. This imbalance in research focus hinders the understanding and effective mitigation of microplastics in the country. This therefore necessitates the implementation of systematic policy frameworks, emphasizing the importance of recycling and upcycling as effective strategies to address the challenges of microplastics in Ghana with more targeted research and public engagement. This review serves as a call to action for a strategic approach to research and policy-making on microplastic research and pollution in Ghana.

Anthropogenic activities have negatively impacted the ecosystem dramatically over the last few decades. The environment is becoming more contaminated with heavy metals, pesticides, and microplastics (MPs) as a result of the swift rise in industrialization and urbanisation. These contaminants are present everywhere in the ecosystem, affecting every living creature, from aquatic to terrestrial to aerial. Recently, the widespread of microplastics in the environment has raised serious concerns about the contamination of honey bees by these tiny particles of plastic. Honeybees are the major pollinators which contributes in the pollination of about 70% food that we consume. This review summarizes current research findings on the presence, uptake, and possible effects of microplastics on honey bees. Findings revealed the presence of microplastics in various honey bee matrices, such as honey, pollen, beeswax, and bee bodies, highlighting the potential routes of exposure for these vital pollinators. Additionally, evidence suggests that microplastics can accumulate in honey bee tissues (brain, midgut, Malpighian tubules, trachea, and haemolymph) potentially leading to adverse effects on honey bee health, behaviour, and colony dynamics. Additionally, MPs has a synergistic impact on immune system as well. Change in cuticle profile, reduction in body weight, and changes in eating frequency can regulate overall success rate of their survival. However, significant knowledge gaps remain regarding the long-term consequences for
honey bee populations and ecosystem health, which cannot unveil the ultimate degree of future threats. Future research efforts should focus on investigating the interactions between microplastics and other stressors, such as pesticides and pathogens, and assessing the broader ecological implications of honey bee contamination with microplastics. Addressing these knowledge gaps is essential for developing effective mitigation strategies to minimize the impact of microplastics on honey bee populations and safeguarding their vital role in ecosystem functioning and food security.

The physical properties of microplastics, such as size, type, polymer and chemical composition, affect their level of toxicity once ingested by aquatic species. Therefore, to be able to produce environmental relevant ecotoxicity data, laboratory tests should take these properties into consideration as well as in the calculation of effect factors for the Life Cycle Assessment methodology. In this study, we reviewed papers estimating ecotoxicity of microplastics ingested by species under laboratory conditions as well as data on microplastics ingested by species sampled from the field. This aims to identify the physical property of the plastics ingested and the influence on levels of ecotoxicity. Afterwards, our paper shows a mismatch between the physical properties ingested by the species sampled in the field and those tested for toxicity in laboratory studies. Regarding types, laboratory studies commonly expose aquatic species to regularly shaped particles such as microbeads and pellets (representing 72%). For effect factors in LCA context, microbeads represent 88 % in number of datapoints. In contrast to this, irregularly shaped particles (e.g. fibres and fragments) are more frequently reported in the field, representing 85
% of the ingested microplastics. At the same time, regarding size, most of the laboratory studies examine microplastics and there is a lack of toxicity data for nano sized particles. A mismatch is also reported on the polymers; Polypropylene, Polyethylene and Polyester represented a total of 45 % of the samples detected in the field, while Polyethylene and Polystyrene represent 69 % in ecotoxicity studies and 78 % in effect factors. These mismatches shows that physical properties prevalent ingested by the species still lack data on levels of ecotoxicity as well as in number of data points in the LCA context.

The contamination of microplastics in terrestrial geoenvironment (CMTG) is widespread and severe and has, received considerable attention. However, studies on CMTG are in their initial stages. The literature on CMTG published in the past decade was analyzed through bibliometric analysis, such as the annual publications, countries with the highest contributions, prolific authors, and author keywords. The sources, compositions, migrations and environmental impacts of CMTG are summarized, and possible future directions are proposed. This study analyzed the annual publications, countries with the highest contributions, prolific authors, and author keywords related to microplastics. The results demonstrated that 15,306 articles were published between 2014 and 2023. China is the leading country in terms of the total number of publications. The main sources of CMTG include landfills, agricultural non-point sources, sewage treatment systems and transportation systems. The composition of the CMTG exhibits significantly temporal and spatial variability from different sources. The migration paths of the CMTG were within the soil, groundwater seepage and wind transportation of suspended particles. Microplastics increase soil cohesion, decrease porosity, reduce pore scale, decrease air circulation, and increase water retention capacity, and the exudation of highly water-soluble additives in microplastics can cause secondary contamination of geological entities. Microplastics have an adverse effect on plant growth, animal digestion, microbial activity, energy and lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and respiratory diseases in humans. It is recommended to develop more efficient and convenient quantitative testing methods for microplastics, formulate globally harmonized testing and evaluation standards, include microplastic testing in testing programs for contaminated soils, and develop efficient methods for the remediation of microplastic contaminated geological bodies.

Currently, microplastics (MPs) have ubiquitously distributed in different aquatic environments. Due to the unique physicochemical properties, MPs exhibit a variety of environmental effects with the coexisted contaminants. MPs can not only alter the migration of contaminants via vector effect, but also affect the transformation process and fate of contaminants via environmental persistent free radicals (EPFRs). The aging processes may enhance the interaction between MPs and co-existed contaminants. Thus, it is of great significance to review the aging mechanism of MPs and the influence of coexisted substances, the formation mechanism of EPFRs, environmental effects of MPs and relevant mechanism. Moreover, microplastic-derived dissolved organic matter (MP-DOM) may also influence the elemental biogeochemical cycles and the relevant environmental processes. However, the environmental implications of MP-DOM are rarely outlined. Finally, the knowledge gaps on environmental effects of MPs were proposed.

From review of the very few topical studies to date, we conclude that while effects are variable, microplastics can induce direct ionoregulatory disturbances in freshwater fish and invertebrates. However, the intensity depends on microplastic type, size, concentration, and exposure regime. More numerous are studies where indirect inferences about possible ionoregulatory effects can be drawn; these indicate increased mucus production, altered breathing, histopathological effects on gill structure, oxidative stress, and alterations in molecular pathways. All of these could have negative effects on ionoregulatory homeostasis. However, previous research has suffered from a lack of standardized reporting of microplastic characteristics and exposure conditions. Often overlooked is the fact that microplastics are dynamic contaminants, changing over time through degradation and fragmentation and subsequently exhibiting altered surface chemistry, notably an increased presence and diversity of functional groups. The same functional groups characterized on microplastics are also present in dissolved organic matter, often termed dissolved organic carbon (DOC), a class of substances for which we have a far greater understanding of their ionoregulatory actions. We highlight instances in which the effects of microplastic exposure resemble those of DOC exposure. We propose that in future microplastic investigations, in vivo techniques that have proven useful in understanding the ionoregulatory effects of DOC should be used including measurements of transepithelial potential, net and unidirectional radio-isotopic ion flux rates, and concentration kinetic analyses of uptake transport. More sophisticated in vitro approaches using cultured gill epithelia, Ussing chamber experiments on gill surrogate membranes, and scanning ion selective electrode techniques (SIET) may also prove useful. Finally, in future studies we advocate for minimum reporting requirements of microplastic
properties and experimental conditions to help advance this important emerging field.

Microplastics in drinking water captured widespread attention following reports of widespread detection around the world. Concerns have been raised about the potential adverse effects of microplastics in drinking water on human health. Given the widespread interest in this research topic, there is an urgent need to compile existing data and assess current knowledge. This paper provides a systematic review of studies on microplastics in drinking water, their evidence, key findings, knowledge gaps, and research needs. The data collected show that microplastics are widespread in drinking water, with large variations in reported concentrations. Standardized methodologies of sampling and analysis are urgently needed. There were more fibrous and fragmented microplastics, with the majority being <10 μm in size and composed of polyester, polyethylene, polypropylene, and polystyrene. Little attention has been paid to the color of microplastics. More research is needed to understand the occurrence and transfer of microplastics throughout the water supply chain and the treatment efficiency of drinking water treatment plants (DWTPs). Methods capable of analyzing microplastics <10 μm and nanoplastics are urgently needed. Potential ecological assessment models for microplastics currently in use need to be improved to take into account the complexity and specificity of microplastics.

The globally increasing contents of microplastics (MP) in ecosystems have become a serious environmental problem with far-reaching and at present unpredictable consequences for both aquatic life and human well-being. Until recently, most research on MP focused on marine ecosystems. Research on the occurrence of MP has lately started to focus on freshwater environments. This comprehensive and critical review examines the multifaceted problem of MP pollution in freshwater ecosystems, delving into its diverse sources, transport mechanisms, environmental impacts, detection methods, and mitigation strategies. The environmental impacts of MP pollution span a spectrum of impacts on aquatic life, food webs, and biodiversity in general. In addition,
human health concerns have arisen due to potential exposures resulting from the consumption of contaminated freshwater and biological resources. The review summarizes analytical methods and technologies used to detect and quantify MP in freshwater samples, while recognizing the challenges and new innovations in this area. Mitigation and management strategies are explored, ranging from waste management and recycling initiatives to engineering solutions such as wastewater treatment and stormwater management. Legislative measures aimed at curbing MP pollution are also reviewed. Reviewed case studies highlight regional differences, and the unique challenges faced by different freshwater ecosystems. The review concludes by highlighting the urgent need for
global awareness, further research, and coordinated action to address the growing problem of MP pollution in freshwater. As humanity faces this complex environmental challenge, interdisciplinary approaches, and international collaboration are essential for sustainable solutions and protection of freshwater ecosystems and health of the planet.

The emergence of microplastics (MPs) as microcontaminants in environmental drinking water sources is a problem in Africa that requires immediate action. Therefore, this review focused on understanding the sources of MPs in African water systems, treatment strategies, analytical methods for identification and quantification, and Africa’s pollution index. From the findings, the source of MPs in African water systems was attributed to unregulated importation of plastic products, poor waste management, lack of awareness, poor environmental value system and the inability of local polymer industries to adjust to new policies on plastic management. Most studies identified microfibers and microbeads to be the primary sources of plastics that break down to MPs in African
drinking water sources, with polystyrene (PS), polypropylene (PP), and polyethylene (PE) being frequently detected. Current methods for identification, and quantification of MPs in most studies conducted in Africa were not developed in Africa but was adopted from developed countries and, in some cases, modified to meet specific analytical requirements. More studies are necessary for in-depth understanding of the fate and pollution index of MP in African environmental water systems. Furthermore, the interaction between MP and other pollutants in the water system still needs to be better understood. This review suggests membrane and rapid sand filtration methods as promising methods that may be considered for removing MPs from water systems in Africa.

Microplastics (5 mm - 1 μm) have become one of the major pollutants in the environment. Numerous studies have shown that microplastics can have negative impacts on aquatic organisms, affecting their liver function levels. However, the extent of these effects and their potential toxicological mechanisms are largely unknown. In this study, a meta-analysis and systematic review were conducted to assess the effects of microplastics on fish liver function and summarize the potential toxicological mechanisms of microplastic-induced liver toxicity. The meta-analysis results indicate that compared to the control group, exposure to microplastics significantly affects fish liver indicators: aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (p < 0.001), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (p < 0.001), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (p < 0.001), total protein (TP) (p < 0.001), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (p < 0.001), including oxidative stress indicators: superoxide dismutase (SOD) (p < 0.001), glutathione S-transferase (GST) (p < 0.001), glutathione (GSH) (p < 0.001), and malondialdehyde (MDA) (p < 0.001) in fish liver. For fish living in different environments, the potential toxicological mechanisms of microplastics exposure on fish liver may exhibit some differences. For freshwater fish, the mechanism may be that microplastics exposure causes overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in fish hepatocyte mitochondria. ROS promotes the expression of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and activates downstream molecules myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) of the TLR2 signaling pathway, leading to phosphorylation of NF-κB p65. This leads to the release of inflammatory factors and oxidative stress and inflammation in fish liver. In addition, for seawater fish, the mechanism may be that microplastics exposure can cause damage or death of fish hepatocytes, leading to continuous pathological changes, inflammation, lipid and energy metabolism disorders, thereby causing significant changes in liver function indexes.

In recent, soil microplastic pollution arising from organic fertilizers has been of a great increasing concern. In response to this concern, this review presents a comprehensive analysis of the occurrence and evolution of microplastics in organic fertilizers, their ingress into the soil, and the subsequent impacts. Organic fertilizers are primarily derived from solid organic waste generated by anthropocentric activities including urban (daily-life, municipal wastes and sludge), agricultural (manure, straw), and industrial (like food industrial waste etc.) processes. In order to produce organic fertilizer, the organic solid wastes are generally treated by aerobic composting or anaerobic digestion. Currently, microplastics have been widely detected in the raw materials and products of organic fertilizer. During the process of converting organic solid waste materials into fertilizer, intense oxidation, hydrolysis, and microbial actions significantly alter the physical, chemical, and surface biofilm properties of the plastics. After the organic fertilizer application, the abundances of microplastics significantly increased in the soil. Additionally, the degradation of these microplastics often promotes the adsorption of
organic pollutants and affects their retention time in the soil. These microplastics, covered by biofilms, also significantly alter soil ecology due to the unique properties of the biofilm. Furthermore, the biofilms also play a role in the degradation of microplastics in the soil environment. This review offers a new perspective on the soil environmental processes involving microplastics from organic fertilizer sources and highlights the challenges associated with further research on organic fertilizers and microplastics.

Microplastic (MP) pollution in urban environments is a pervasive and complex problem with significant environmental and human health implications. Although studies have been conducted on MP pollution in urban environments, there are still research gaps in understanding the exact sources, regulation, and impact of urban MP on the environment and public health. Therefore, the goal of this study is to provide a comprehensive overview of the complex pathways, harmful effects, and regulatory efforts of urban MP pollution. It discusses the research challenges and suggests future directions for addressing MPs related to environmental issues in urban settings. In this study, original research papers published from 2010 to 2024 across ten database categories, including PubMed, Google Scholar, Scopus, and Web of Science, were selected and reviewed to improve our understanding of urban MP pollution. The analysis revealed multifaceted sources of MPs, including surface runoff, wastewater discharge, atmospheric deposition, and biological interactions, which contribute to the contamination of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. MPs pose a threat to marine and terrestrial life, freshwater organisms, soil health, plant communities, and human health through ingestion, inhalation, and dermal exposure. Current regulatory measures for MP pollution include improved waste management, upgraded wastewater treatment, stormwater management, product innovation, public awareness campaigns, and community engagement. Despite these regulatory measures, several challenges such as; the absence of standardized MPs testing methods, MPs enter into the environment through a multitude of sources and pathways, countries struggle in balancing trade interests with environmental concerns have hindered effective policy implementation and enforcement. Addressing MP pollution in urban environments is essential for preserving ecosystems, safeguarding public health, and advancing sustainable development. Interdisciplinary collaboration, innovative research, stringent regulations, and public participation are vital for mitigating this critical issue and ensuring a cleaner and healthier future for urban environments and the planet.

The presence of microplastics (MPs) in human body parts has raised significant concerns due to their status as a major environmental pollutant. Despite existing methods for detecting and identifying MPs in human tissues, there is a lack of standardized techniques, compromising the comparability of data across studies. This review critically analyzes the current knowledge on MPs in human body parts, sources and potential exposure pathways. This study underscores the urgent need for standardized and validated techniques for accurate MP analysis and characterization in human tissues, addressing the methodological challenges in MP detection. The findings of this review indicate that humans are exposed to MPs potentially through several routes such as ingestion, inhalation and dermal contact. However, the exact routes for MPs entering the body remain unclear. It also examines the wide range of health impacts associated with MPs, such as oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, endocrine disruption, and potential genotoxicity. Nevertheless, the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying these effects are still not well understood, especially when considering the diverse concentrations, shapes, and sizes of MPs. Therefore, further research is essential, particularly to enhance epidemiological studies that can robustly establish the link between MP exposure and health impacts in large populations. Advancing this knowledge will be crucial for developing effective strategies to safeguard both environmental and public health from the detrimental effects of MPs.

The escalating production of synthetic plastics and inadequate waste management have led to pervasive microplastic (MP) contamination in aquatic ecosystems. MPs, typically defined as particles smaller than 5 mm, have become an emerging pollutant in freshwater environments. While significant concern about MPs has risen since 2014, research has predominantly concentrated on marine settings, there is an urgent need for a more in-depth critical review to systematically summarize the current global efforts, knowledge gaps, and research priorities for MP monitoring in freshwater systems. This review evaluates the current understanding of MP monitoring in freshwater environments by examining the distribution, characteristics, and sources of MPs, alongside the progression of analytical methods with quantitative evidence. Our findings suggest that MPs are widely distributed in global freshwater systems, with higher abundances found in areas with intense human economic activities, such as the United States, Europe, and China. MP abundance distributions vary across different water bodies (e.g., rivers, lakes, estuaries, and wetlands), with sampling methods and size range selections significantly influencing reported MP abundances. Despite great global efforts, there is still a lack of harmonized analyzing framework and understanding of MP pollution in specific regions and facilities. Future research should prioritize the development of standardized analysis protocols and open-source MP datasets to facilitate data comparison. Additionally, exploring the potential of state-of-the-art artificial intelligence for rapid, accurate, and large-scale modeling and characterization of MPs is crucial to inform effective strategies for managing MP pollution in freshwater ecosystems.

The billions of tons of plastic released into the environment mostly fragment into smaller particles that reach rivers and oceans, posing toxicity risks to aquatic organisms. As fish serve as excellent environmental indicator organisms, this study aims to comprehensively review and quantify published data regarding the abundance of microplastics (MPs) ingested by fish through scientometric analysis. Systematic analysis reveals that global aquatic ecosystems are contaminated by MPs, with the characteristics of these contaminants stemming from inadequate disposal management practices. The abundance of MPs was recorded in several fish species, notably Cyprinus carpio in natural environments and Danio rerio in controlled environments. According to the surveyed studies, laboratory experiments do not accurately represent the conditions found in natural environments. The results suggest that, in natural environments, the predominant colors of MPs are blue, black, and red. Fibers emerged as the most prevalent type, with polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) being the most frequently identified chemical compositions. On the other hand, laboratory studies showed that the spheres and fragments ingested were predominantly polystyrene (PS) green, followed by the colors blue and red. This discrepancy complicates drawing accurate conclusions regarding the actual effects of plastic particles on aquatic biota. Given the enduring presence of plastic in the environment, it is imperative to consider and implement environmental monitoring for effective, long-term management.

The increase in plastic debris and its environmental impact has been a major concern for scientists. Physical destruction, chemical reactions, and microbial activity can degrade plastic waste into particles smaller than 5 mm, known as microplastics (MPs). MPs may eventually enter aquatic ecosystems through surface runoff. The accumulation of MPs in aquatic environments poses a potential threat to finfish, shellfish, and the ecological
balance. This study investigated the effect of MP exposure on freshwater and marine fish. MPs could cause significant harm to fish, including physical damage, death, inflammation, oxidative stress, disruption of cell signalling and cellular biochemical processes, immune system suppression, genetic damage, and reduction in fish growth and reproduction rates. The activation of the detoxification system of fish exposed to MPs may be associated with the toxicity of MPs and chemical additives to plastic polymers. Furthermore, MPs can enhance the bioavailability of other xenobiotics, allowing these harmful substances to more easily enter and accumulate in fish. Accumulation of MPs and associated chemicals in fish can have adverse effects on the fish and humans who consume them, with these toxic substances magnifying as they move up the food chain. Changes in migration and reproduction patterns and disruptions in predator-prey relationships in fish exposed to MPs can significantly affect ecological dynamics. These interconnected changes can lead to cascading effects throughout aquatic ecosystems. Thus, implementing solutions like reducing plastic production, enhancing recycling efforts, using biodegradable materials, and improving waste management is essential to minimize plastic waste and its environmental impact.